# Process Security

This panel is composed of three parts by default: Program Tree, Process Rules, and Process Details.

(1) Program Tree
When MP starts, it automatically counts the processes running in the system, as well as various applications registered in the registry (such as UWP programs).

**Note:** The program tree is organized hierarchically based on program directory inclusion relationships, not process startup relationships. Each program item represents an image file or a directory containing an image file, rather than a strict instance. Therefore, you may see programs that are not currently running.

If the desired program item for settings is not found in the program tree, users can add program items by clicking the button at the top of the panel.

Program tree information is cached in the Program.dat file.

(2) Process Rules
This section displays rules related to "processes". You can right-click on the blank area to bring up a context menu to perform the following actions: create a rule, copy panel content. You can right-click on existing process rules to perform: enable/disable rules, delete rules, copy rules, edit rules, etc.

Rules automatically generated by the Tweak Engine will also be displayed here.

For details related to process rules, please refer to the document "Program Rule".

(3) Process Details
This section includes several sub-tabs.

{1} Includes "Running Process", which displays information related to running instances corresponding to the selected program item in the program tree (such as Process ID). When no program item is selected in the program tree, it defaults to displaying information related to all running processes in the system.

{2} Includes "Loaded Module", which displays information about the modules loaded by the instances corresponding to the selected program item in the program tree. Due to its implementation mechanism based on logging, it will include module loading information for terminated processes. If no program item is selected in the program tree, or if the selected program item has no recorded instances, it will display blank. When a program item with recorded information is selected, this section will display the recorded process instance items. However, unlike "Running Process", each instance item can be expanded. When an instance item is expanded, it will display all modules that have attempted to be loaded into the relevant process in an indented format, along with related information. The "Trust Level" column identifies the issuer's trust level recognized by MP for the digital signature attached to the module (if any). The "LastStatus" column indicates whether the module was successfully loaded into the target instance for the last time. The "Signing Certificate" displays the name of the certificate issuer.

{3} Includes "Execution Monitor", which monitors which processes the instances of the relevant program item have launched, and which processes have launched them.

{4} Includes "Entry Monitor", which monitors whether the instances of the relevant program item have attempted to access other processes, and whether other processes have attempted to access the relevant instances.

{5} Includes "Trace Log", where relevant logs will be displayed when users specifically set up to track the operations of a certain program item.


For the next panel see "Secure Enclave".